# dis-assemble-gen-3

`dis-assemble-gen-3` is an implementation of the `Distributed Interactive Simulation` (`DIS`) protocol _generation 3_
for Rust.
It provides structures and functions to build `PDU`s in applications, send them out via a network and parse received
byte streams into PDUs.

Constructing `PDU`s is done via builder pattern constructors.

Given a buffer with data from the network, the library can return multiple `PDU`s in multiple `DIS` versions present in
the buffer.

The library supports version `8` of the standard ('Generation 3').
**At this moment the library is based on draft 5 of DIS v8**.

### Generation

The majority of the code in this crate is generated by the build script, using crate `dis-gen-ieee-1278-gen-3`.

The schema definitions are part of this crate itself in the directory `./definitions/v8-schemas`.

### Enumerations

`dis-assemble-gen-3` uses the `SISO-REF-010` reference to map the wire level encoding to actual names of enumerations
and values in
code.
E.g., one can use the enum `PduType::EntityState` in code instead of remembering that a `1` means that specific value.

The code for these enums is generated by the build script (using crate `dis-gen-siso-ref-010`) from the
published [SISO-REF-010.xml](./definitions/enumerations/SISO-REF-010.xml) file.
The required `overrides.toml` file to generate the correct code is in the directory `./definitions/enumerations`.

## Usage

### Constructing PDUs

`PDU`s are constructed using a `default()` or `builder()` associated functions on the structs for `PduHeader` or
`PduBody`s.
Using `SomePdu::builder()` constructs a Builder for the PDU.
The Builders start with the default values for PDU fields, and you have to set fields using `.with_field_name()`
functions.
The `build()` function turns the Builder into the typed body of the PDU you are building (e.g., `Signal`).
There are no internal validation or checks whether you construct a PDU with valid combinations of fields.

The main data structure is a `Pdu`, which consists of a `PduHeader` and a `PduBody`. The body is a variant of `PduBody`,
an enum that wraps a specific struct for that PDU type in a variant (such as `Pdu::Signal(Signal)`).
The specific body structs, e.g. an `EntityState`, can be wrapped / converted to a `PduBody` by call the
`into_pdu_body()` function on the struct.
Further, the body can be merged with a `PDUHeader` using the associated function
`Pdu::finalize_from_parts(header, body, timestamp)`. This will give you a complete PDU.

### Parsing

The library exposes one function to parse binary data (the `DIS` wire format) into PDUs from a buffer: `parse()`.

### Serializing

To serialize a `PDU` to bytes (the `DIS` wire format), simply call the `serialize()` function on a `Pdu`, providing the
buffer as argument.

## Crate feature flags

The crate offers the following optional features:

- "serde": Adds support for `serde` to the models. See the example `serde-json` in the `dis-rs/examples` directory in
  the repository for details.
